


Problem statement -

    Design a vending machine in java

Clarification Questions -
    1. It is wall attached single vending machine? yes
    2. What are the items you want to keep in the vm ? -  cadbury, yoga bar, haldiram, eat fit super food, thumbs up etc
    4. how would be the payment mode ? -  Does it need to support payment gateway integration  - no ,
    lets just keep it to inserting the money and reading the amount, the items worth same amount shall be dispathed
    5. how would be interfacing with user - does each item needs a code to entered etc, no vending based on the money provided


Ok so the story is -

    AT  given point of time there would be certain number of items in the vending machine which will have item code, item name, and
    price. user will provide the money worth the price of the item he choses to vend. I would expect my money counter to be error
    free and tell me how much money the user has entered. I would vend the item worth that much price. If there is no item matching the value is
    either out of stock then money should be returned to user saying no item matched.
    There should a provision to keep multiple stocks of each item.

    Disadvantes of the this approach-
        only one item can be dispatched in one go
        price of each item must be unique

 Components -

 1. Stock manager -
 2. Currency counter -
 3. Vendor and user interface -
 4. Money Manager -
 5. Transaction Manager -

 Transaction manager will take care of each transacation initiated by the user. Generating the transaction id and updating the stocks and
 money manager regarding vending of the particular item. ONboarding of stock would be done by stock manager itself.

 Sequence of events -

 1. Users initiates a transaction by putting some x amount of money of the vending machine inlet.
 2. Money is passed to the money manager.
 3. Money manager will verify the correctness of the amount provided and return the amount if not valid because of many reasons.
 4. If the amount is valid it will call stock manager to check if there any item with amount x in stocks, return if not.
 5. If yes, call vendor with amount x and ask for the product to be vended.
 6. If it is successfully vended, decrease the stock of the item by 1 and update the money on money manager.
 7. If unable to vend because of any reason like, machine not working properly send the money back to the user and activate for next
 trasaction.

 Onboarding of stocks -

 1. Provide an API IN stock manager which recives itemId, item name, count and price of each item.
 2. Reduce the total money from the money manager.


